<div>

# Running a design sprint: Weeknotes #22 {#running-a-design-sprint-weeknotes-22 .p-name}

</div>

::: {.section .p-summary field="subtitle"}
27 Nov --- 1 Dec 17
:::

::::::: {.section .e-content field="body"}
:::::: {#a548 .section .section .section--body .section--first .section--last}
::: section-divider

------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::

:::: section-content
::: {.section-inner .sectionLayout--insetColumn}
### Running a design sprint: Weeknotes #22 {#f48c .graf .graf--h3 .graf--leading .graf--title name="f48c"}

*27 Nov --- 1 Dec 17*

Some things we achieved this week:

-   [Mike reviewed design and research for an internal project]{#21d1}
-   [He also arranged a few design crits for a Police and Borders
    project]{#ed13}
-   [And put together some new guidance on the design system]{#f800}
-   [And arranged more prototyping training sessions]{#5511}
-   [I ran a design sprint]{#e22e}

#### **Monday** {#d45e .graf .graf--h4 .graf-after--li name="d45e"}

Today started with my regular stand-up with the senior designers. I
rattled through some pending emails and admin things in between other
catch-ups.

Our fortnightly user research and design meet-up was in Sheffield for a
change today. Our speakers were (ex Home Office designer and
[grass](https://www.instagram.com/p/BSjYdsngfK5/?tagged=grasswatch){.markup--anchor
.markup--p-anchor
data-href="https://www.instagram.com/p/BSjYdsngfK5/?tagged=grasswatch"
rel="noopener" target="_blank"}
[growing](https://www.instagram.com/p/BShFJWKgvQU/?tagged=grasswatch){.markup--anchor
.markup--p-anchor
data-href="https://www.instagram.com/p/BShFJWKgvQU/?tagged=grasswatch"
rel="noopener" target="_blank"}
[enthusiast](https://www.instagram.com/p/BSowKMhArdU/?tagged=grasswatch){.markup--anchor
.markup--p-anchor
data-href="https://www.instagram.com/p/BSowKMhArdU/?tagged=grasswatch"
rel="noopener" target="_blank"})
[Mark](https://medium.com/@0100){.markup--anchor .markup--p-anchor
data-href="https://medium.com/@0100" target="_blank"} and
[John](https://twitter.com/mrjonrhodes){.markup--anchor
.markup--p-anchor data-href="https://twitter.com/mrjonrhodes"
rel="noopener" target="_blank"} from
[Paper](https://paper.studio){.markup--anchor .markup--p-anchor
data-href="https://paper.studio" rel="noopener" target="_blank"} who
talked about some of the on going design and research they've been doing
with a charity and the learnings from working with vulnerable groups.

<figure id="e045" class="graf graf--figure graf--iframe graf-after--p">
<blockquote>
<a href="https://twitter.com/ctdesign/status/935145908714528768"></a>
</blockquote>
</figure>

In the afternoon I helped troubleshoot some problems with a colleagues
prototype. I spent the rest of the day getting the room prepped and
ready for the design sprint I was facilitating from tomorrow.

#### **Tuesday** {#597d .graf .graf--h4 .graf-after--p name="597d"}

First, a bit of background.

As part of the Governments Transformation Strategy, the Home Office is
exploring how it might move from building isolated transactions to
designing whole, end-to-end services, as users would recognise them.

A couple of weeks ago I was asked to help one of the team involved in
this build an early prototype. They had an idea for something that would
help senior leaders measure the intended outcomes of end-to-end services
and understand the effects of the activities within the different stages
of the service.

We had a short session to flesh this idea out but it occurred to me that
this problem would be a good candidate for running a design sprint. I
pitched it to the team and they loved it.

For those who don't know, [a design
sprint](http://www.gv.com/sprint/){.markup--anchor .markup--p-anchor
data-href="http://www.gv.com/sprint/" rel="noopener" target="_blank"} is
a structured, time-boxed process for designing and building a prototype
that is tested with users, all within a week. Typically, it's used to
help generate lots of ideas and lasts five days.

Ours was going to be a bit different.

We only had four days available. We also weren't really looking to
generate lots of competing concepts --- we had an idea of what we wanted
to achieve, just not the exact way to do it.

So why not just run a more standard workshop instead?

There were a few reasons. The structure of the design sprint lends
itself well to what we wanted to achieve. It's rare that getting
everyone together in a room for a concentrated time period is not
valuable.

I also hoped that the activities particular to design sprints would help
us make better, faster decisions.

Well, that was my hope. I wasn't *entirely* sure it would work.

**Morning**

We were running this in Sheffield in a collaboration area built for this
kind of purpose. Before everyone got here I set up the room and brought
some snacks. The design sprint book recommends [getting a
timer](https://library.gv.com/the-time-timer-google-ventures-secret-weapon-for-instantly-better-meetings-53c94faf426b){.markup--anchor
.markup--p-anchor
data-href="https://library.gv.com/the-time-timer-google-ventures-secret-weapon-for-instantly-better-meetings-53c94faf426b"
rel="noopener" target="_blank"} --- I didn't have one so instead I
brought in my iPad and purchased the [Time Timer
app](https://www.timetimer.com/products/time-timer-ios-app){.markup--anchor
.markup--p-anchor
data-href="https://www.timetimer.com/products/time-timer-ios-app"
rel="noopener" target="_blank"}, which worked just fine for me.

<figure id="74cd" class="graf graf--figure graf-after--p">
<img
src="https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*R9LdFHeTw3lvguZrO8Vq0A.jpeg"
class="graf-image" data-image-id="1*R9LdFHeTw3lvguZrO8Vq0A.jpeg"
data-width="4032" data-height="3024" data-is-featured="true" />
<figcaption>One of our three collaboration spaces in our Sheffield
office</figcaption>
</figure>

All of the participants arrived bang on time which was most appreciated.
Most of the delivery team (comprising of designers and researchers) was
there along with a few extras.

I started by welcoming everyone and framing the activities of the week
with [some
slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1ITtV3bMkUbHMLfKMD702sKHQskUmRUNQ){.markup--anchor
.markup--p-anchor
data-href="https://drive.google.com/open?id=1ITtV3bMkUbHMLfKMD702sKHQskUmRUNQ"
rel="noopener" target="_blank"}. I'd condensed down the first two days
of learning and sketching into one day ([see my
agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/195Lgqwy7V9nyoj53Q4II27z-ejN1vFxUp824uSTCQnU/edit?usp=sharing){.markup--anchor
.markup--p-anchor
data-href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/195Lgqwy7V9nyoj53Q4II27z-ejN1vFxUp824uSTCQnU/edit?usp=sharing"
rel="noopener" target="_blank"}) and was cutting out some of the
standard activities. This was the part that I was a bit wary of, as I
wasn't sure that the timings would work and I was worried we'd miss out
on something important.

I then reiterated the broad goal that I had previously sent out to all
of the participants on the invite. Instead of running the 'ask the
experts' and 'setting a long term goal' activity from the book, we
instead discussed the following questions from this [Ben Holliday
article](http://www.hollidazed.co.uk/2015/07/28/frame-the-problem/){.markup--anchor
.markup--p-anchor
data-href="http://www.hollidazed.co.uk/2015/07/28/frame-the-problem/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank"} (thanks to
[Chuckles](https://medium.com/@charlesrt){.markup--anchor
.markup--p-anchor data-href="https://medium.com/@charlesrt"
target="_blank"} for the suggestion):

-   [**Why are we doing this work? \
    ***What is our motivation for building this product or
    service*]{#eef7}
-   [**Who are our users?** \
    *Who do we think would need to use this product or service?*]{#b4f0}
-   [**What outcome will users get from this product/service?**\
    *What problem will it solve for people?*]{#2819}
-   [**What outcome are we looking for?** \
    *What problem will it solve for our organisation?*]{#0cf9}
-   [**What are our key goal/outcome/metric?**]{#bb60}

I was worried that the team would feel we were repeating things they
already knew --- but delving into and discussing some of the specifics
around this was massively useful.

As the person facilitating, I spent most of my time scribbling furiously
on the walls and asking follow up questions. It also teased out some
really useful themes that helped shape the conversations we had.

Normally one of the key outputs from the start of a design sprint is to
create a high level map of how the service or product works (this helps
you later on choose a specific area to focus on). Although I'd planned
for this, we realised that it wasn't really useful for us and the type
of thing we're doing. Instead we discussed the problem area in more
detail, trying to understand the types of measures that our users would
need to see.

We had to have a slightly longer lunch as some of the team had committed
to a show and tell --- this was actually very helpful to give more
context around the overall service.

**Afternoon**

After lunch, we had intended to print out some screenshots of
inspiration to put on the wall. Instead we researched other sites and
products and posted all of the screenshots to a slack channel. We then
went through each of them on the big screen in our room, whilst I noted
down on the whiteboard the key ideas from them. By this point I'd
already filled up one standing whiteboard and an entire whiteboard wall.
I probably need to work on being more succinct and only writing down
really relevant information.

Because the 'thing' we were working on was about measuring outcomes, we
then started looking at the kinds of metrics that would be appropriate.
Some of the team members had already started gathering this, so we spent
a bit of time getting it out of their heads and up onto the walls. We
had difficulty in articulating some of the measures but we got there in
the end.

At this point we had an idea of who our users were, an area to focus on
and an understand of the scope. We'd also placed months of work normally
buried in the teams collective skulls up on the wall.

With this in hand, we went through a [structured sketching
exercise](https://designsprintkit.withgoogle.com/methods/sketch/){.markup--anchor
.markup--p-anchor
data-href="https://designsprintkit.withgoogle.com/methods/sketch/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank"} from the design sprint book; first
taking notes, then sketching ideas, then doing crazy-8 sketches and
finishing with a tighter solution sketch. This was all time-boxed and
yielded some really good ideas.

#### **Wednesday** {#9569 .graf .graf--h4 .graf-after--p name="9569"}

**Morning**

We began the day with a 10 minute review of the previous day. We had a
couple of extra people join us, so this was useful to get everyone up to
speed.

We stuck up the previous days sketches onto a wall and talked through
them each in turn, in detail. We didn't bother with voting as we didn't
feel it was time to make a decision yet.

We then held a discussion about what kind of metrics we should actually
show in this prototype. We ended up going back over the previous days
discussions. This part became quite difficult as we weren't sure of the
right thing to show. One thing that I think tripped us up was that we
kept drifting into talking about the overall aims of the entire project
instead of keeping focus on the specific aims of this week --- something
that I as the facilitator needed to bear in mind.

In the end we resolved to just try *something --- *it's much easier to
understand what the problems are when there's *a thing* to actually look
at.

We decided to have another sketching session to consolidate all of the
thinking that the review of this mornings sketches sparked.

<figure id="599d" class="graf graf--figure graf-after--p">
<img
src="https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*aiJHmqlPCiXF5GJK-HrwvA.jpeg"
class="graf-image" data-image-id="1*aiJHmqlPCiXF5GJK-HrwvA.jpeg"
data-width="4032" data-height="3024" />
</figure>

#### Afternoon {#f981 .graf .graf--h4 .graf-after--figure name="f981"}

We opened the afternoon by discussing these new sketches. At this point
we knew what kinds of metrics we could use, but we wanted to have the
numbers represented in a somewhat realistic way, so as not to jar with
our users during the testing (they were all 'made up', but within
realistic ranges). We split up the work to figure out what these should
be for the remainder of the afternoon.

#### Thursday {#029e .graf .graf--h4 .graf-after--p name="029e"}

All of Thursday was spent building the prototype. I'm pretty experienced
with the government prototyping kit so in the morning I setup a fresh
install.

<figure id="3d88" class="graf graf--figure graf-after--p">
<img
src="https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*tQJjODA_xqzm87A3K2J5Hw.jpeg"
class="graf-image" data-image-id="1*tQJjODA_xqzm87A3K2J5Hw.jpeg"
data-width="4032" data-height="3024" />
</figure>

I hooked up my laptop to the big screen at the end of the room so that
the whole team could feedback instantly on what I was doing --- this
worked really well throughout the day. And because of the auto refresh
feature in the kit, it meant all of the changes I was coding were
reflected instantly on screen. It was so much easier and quicker to just
turn around to someone and ask if this was right.

Whilst I was working on the layout of the page and adding some
placeholder content, other team members worked on what actual
information we wanted to show and helped write copy. The researchers
arranged and planned tomorrows testing. It was really important for us
to be clear about what we wanted from testing.

We wanted to know whether an alternative layout could work so
[Liam](https://twitter.com/liamhawkes){.markup--anchor .markup--p-anchor
data-href="https://twitter.com/liamhawkes" rel="noopener"
target="_blank"} started working in Sketch to design another version,
which we would also show to users.

[Our Home Office design
system](https://home-office-digital-patterns.herokuapp.com/patterns){.markup--anchor
.markup--p-anchor
data-href="https://home-office-digital-patterns.herokuapp.com/patterns"
rel="noopener" target="_blank"} proved invaluable throughout the day, as
I could grab code snippets and drop them into my prototype really
quickly. It saved a lot of time.

In the afternoon we had a couple of video calls with colleagues to check
in with our progress. It was really handy to have an outside perspective
on what we were doing.

#### Friday {#6e08 .graf .graf--h4 .graf-after--p name="6e08"}

During the morning we finished off changes to the prototype.

Instead of a formal user research session we opted to invite our two
participants into our war room. We felt that due to the nature of the
work it was important to frame it in the right way first. We knew
following this week that we could run more formal testing if we decided
to continue with the idea. One of the objectives of the prototype we
built was to make the value of organising around end-to-end services
obvious. To show that you couldn't get these measures without
orientating the organisation in this way.

The session went well and we learned a lot about the prototype, the
participants reaction to the concept of end-to-end services and how we
might frame things better in the future.

The team felt that it was a really valuable week --- which from my
perspective was the best outcome I could have hoped for.

#### Reflections {#ac82 .graf .graf--h4 .graf-after--p name="ac82"}

It was a tiring week, but the team commented on how useful (and fun)
getting together like this was.

I was initially worried about messing around with the formula for design
sprints but, reflecting back, I think it's more important to stick to
the principles and let them guide you, rather than slavishly adhering to
a formula (not that there's anything wrong with the formula). Once I
understood this, it was much easier.

To designers and digital teams already working in digital government, a
design sprint probably doesn't seem massively different to a typical
agile sprint. I think that's pretty much true --- there is no magic to
it and it borrows lots of ideas. But the combination of the time-boxing
and shortcutting the decision making process is unique to this and I
think most people in gov will find design sprints useful in the alpha
phase and when teams get stuck.

The space we had in Sheffield was really key to making this work. We
couldn't run something like this easily in our London offices. Getting a
room booking, even a few weeks in advance, is very difficult. These
collaboration spaces are deliberately un-bookable on the electronic
booking system (you can however reserve them a week before by sticking a
post-it on the table). Because they aren't set up like a normal meeting
rooms and don't have doors (one side is open to the whole office) they
only really get used for actual collaborative sessions.

I had a really fun week running this and will be working with delivery
teams in the Home Office to run more.
:::
::::
::::::
:::::::

By [Chris T](https://medium.com/@ctdesign){.p-author .h-card} on
[December 7, 2017](https://medium.com/p/d9acb57dd583).

[Canonical
link](https://medium.com/@ctdesign/running-a-design-sprint-weeknotes-22-d9acb57dd583){.p-canonical}

Exported from [Medium](https://medium.com) on February 9, 2025.
