<div>

# Workshops and sea views: Weeknotes s02e06 {#workshops-and-sea-views-weeknotes-s02e06 .p-name}

</div>

::: {.section .p-summary field="subtitle"}
13 Aug 18--24 Aug 18
:::

::::::: {.section .e-content field="body"}
:::::: {#37cc .section .section .section--body .section--first .section--last}
::: section-divider

------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::

:::: section-content
::: {.section-inner .sectionLayout--insetColumn}
### Workshops and sea views: Weeknotes s02e06 {#e1e4 .graf .graf--h3 .graf--leading .graf--title name="e1e4"}

*13 Aug 18--24 Aug 18*

<figure id="d688" class="graf graf--figure graf-after--p">
<img
src="https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*sC5GHIU24uvYeVjw7MAsGA.gif"
class="graf-image" data-image-id="1*sC5GHIU24uvYeVjw7MAsGA.gif"
data-width="224" data-height="126" />
</figure>

This weeks edition is another bumper one due to cramming things in
before heading off on a short break last week. It's been a really packed
few weeks so I'm going through everything day by day so I don't miss
anything.

#### **Mon 13 Aug** {#afa7 .graf .graf--h4 .graf-after--p name="afa7"}

In Sheffield on a Monday, which was a most welcome change.

I started the morning by sifting for some contract roles we've got live
at the moment. I find sifting a bit of a grind, especially when there is
a large volume of applicants. Normally I'd force myself to sit and do
them for long stretches but this time I broke them up over the rest of
the week, doing one or two applicants between other jobs --- this worked
so much better. Much easier to mentally commit to just a coupe at a time
instead of a massive daunting chunk. Part of me always thinks that doing
the things I find tedious in one go will somehow be better, but it
pretty much never is.

Later on in the week I'll be on a cross gov design system working group
panel assessing some new patterns for inclusion into the design system
(the process is documented on the [Design System
site](https://design-system.service.gov.uk/community/design-system-working-group/){.markup--anchor
.markup--p-anchor
data-href="https://design-system.service.gov.uk/community/design-system-working-group/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank"}). I liked being involved in this work
again as I've stepped away from it for a long while to focus on the
Police Digital Service. I spent a bit of time today reviewing the
proposals and sent off my recommendations. The meeting later this week
is for us all to come together and discuss the responses.

A decent chunk of the day was spent figuring out how to do some fancy,
advanced stuff in the prototype kit. With the help of
[Chris](https://medium.com/u/cfa0220014f1){.markup--user .markup--p-user
data-href="https://medium.com/u/cfa0220014f1" anchor-type="2"
user-id="cfa0220014f1" action-value="cfa0220014f1"
data-action="show-user-card" action-type="hover" target="_blank"} and
[Max](https://twitter.com/max_froumentin){.markup--anchor
.markup--p-anchor data-href="https://twitter.com/max_froumentin"
rel="noopener" target="_blank"} I managed to get, what for me was a
fairly advanced thing working in the prototype kit. I wanted to have a
page template that loaded all of its content in from a json file. I'll
have lots of different pages using the same template so I didnt want to
create lots of static pages, especially when the design might change a
lot. I've created a gist with the code I used if you want to use it.

<figure id="5dde" class="graf graf--figure graf--iframe graf-after--p">

</figure>

#### **Tues 14 Aug** {#fef9 .graf .graf--h4 .graf-after--figure name="fef9"}

Spent all of today in London on an assessment panel for an internal
service.

This was a really unusual one in that it was built for just 10, very
specialised users (which will only increase marginally over the next few
years). We had some interesting debates around how much flexibility we
would give in applying the service standards. We all felt at this stage
in the service that, whilst there were improvements that needed to be
made, we should weigh these up against the cost implications of making
lots of changes. I think it's important to remember that a lot of the
service standard is around ensuring that money is not wasted
unnecessarily and sometimes that's more important than ensuring the
purity of our professional standards.

#### **Weds 15 Aug** {#a69e .graf .graf--h4 .graf-after--p name="a69e"}

Back in Sheffield again all day. Yay.

Today was mostly spent using the awesome collaboration spaces we have
available in Sheffield (they have wall space for post-its, a screen with
a webcam and big, long tables) for the decision making project. We're at
the end of our discovery and are now coming up with ideas that we can
try out in Alpha. It was a really good session with lots of good
discussions and time for thinking going on. We tried a few different
exercises to come up with ideas from different angles including [Rip &
Mix](http://www.openchange.co.uk/rip-mix/){.markup--anchor
.markup--p-anchor data-href="http://www.openchange.co.uk/rip-mix/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank"} and, a kind of, capability matrix
(there's a proper name for this that [Mr
Bootle](https://medium.com/u/29e5d88c3e6){.markup--user .markup--p-user
data-href="https://medium.com/u/29e5d88c3e6" anchor-type="2"
user-id="29e5d88c3e6" action-value="29e5d88c3e6"
data-action="show-user-card" action-type="hover" target="_blank"} told
me but I can't remember). For this we created a matrix on a wall of of
all of the ideas we had as column headings and the capabilities of our
team (user research, prototyping, idea generation etc) vertically as
rows. We then generated ideas for each cell which helped us come up with
things aligned to our strengths. I'll be using that one again.

#### **Thurs 16 Aug** {#7440 .graf .graf--h4 .graf-after--p name="7440"}

Spent all day in Croydon, mostly prototyping with one of the Police
programmes there. I hid for an hour in the afternoon to remotely attend
the design system review session I mentioned --- some great discussions
and considerations from different angles of the proposed patterns.

#### **Fri 17 Aug** {#abee .graf .graf--h4 .graf-after--p name="abee"}

Back in Sheffield for finishing off bits and bobs that accumulated in
the week. I decided that it was so nice seeing people in the previous
days review session that I went along to the weekly Design System review
session, which I've not attended for a long while. We saw some upcoming
improvements to the Design System and I asked for some advice for an
upcoming piece of work for the Police Digital Service. They're a great
bunch.

#### **Mon 20 Aug** {#7540 .graf .graf--h4 .graf-after--p name="7540"}

This was an incredibly busy day in London for me, further intensified by
the need to get back home to Chesterfield for a friends evening wedding
reception. Worked on an assessment report and sifting on the train, then
headed over to our Westminster office to meet with some stakeholders on
one of my projects to talk through some new design changes we've
introduced --- luckily it went down really well. Afterwards I headed
back over to Clive House for a couple of planning meetings for two other
projects and then a meeting with some colleagues from Hackney Council
who came over to update us on the work they've been doing on an Open
Research Library. There's a lot of cross over with some of the things
we've been doing in the Police Digital Service and the wider Home
Office. They're doing some good work in Hackney and its great to see
lots of the team there also doing weeknotes (I've been enjoying [Rahma
Mohamed](https://medium.com/u/909c9a7a9de6){.markup--user
.markup--p-user data-href="https://medium.com/u/909c9a7a9de6"
anchor-type="2" user-id="909c9a7a9de6" action-value="909c9a7a9de6"
data-action="show-user-card" action-type="hover" target="_blank"} and
[Matthew Cain](https://medium.com/u/b217ba891533){.markup--user
.markup--p-user data-href="https://medium.com/u/b217ba891533"
anchor-type="2" user-id="b217ba891533" action-value="b217ba891533"
data-action="show-user-card" action-type="hover" target="_blank"}'s
recently).

#### **Tues 21 Aug** {#830c .graf .graf--h4 .graf-after--p name="830c"}

Back over in Sheffield for another all-day workshop. We were starting to
refine our initial ideas down into clearer pieces of work, checking that
they actually solve problems we've seen and that we have created
hypotheses. The work on the decision making project has been a bit slow
going but that's mainly been due to the fact that we are not a
co-located team and each of us are spread over several projects --- not
ideal, but a temporary necessity. I'm really happy with the ways that
we're coming up with lots of ideas and refining them down. We're having
great discussions and deepening our understanding at the same time.

Related to this I've been thinking a lot about how we do alphas --- I've
talked before about them being an area that we as designers need to work
harder to improve. Far too often teams in the Home Office (and all
across gov) will only work on one idea in alpha and begin the build at
the same time --- I don't think it's really an alpha if you're not
trying multiple ideas. I'm thinking about starting some work soon to
help address this in the Police Digital Service.

#### Weds 22 Aug {#d77e .graf .graf--h4 .graf-after--p name="d77e"}

Only worked half a day today. I mostly spent the morning making some
prototype amends and prepping for some new starters next week.

The rest of the afternoon was spent packing for a four-day camping trip
to Wales --- a much needed break by the sea.

#### Thurs 23 Aug & Fri 24 Aug {#c5fc .graf .graf--h4 .graf-after--p name="c5fc"}

On holiday! Mostly was staring at the sea, eating and sleeping. It was
great!

<figure id="f3de" class="graf graf--figure graf-after--p">
<img
src="https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*y4xEZFC6VG4v5us2ATFLgg.jpeg"
class="graf-image" data-image-id="1*y4xEZFC6VG4v5us2ATFLgg.jpeg"
data-width="1080" data-height="1080" data-is-featured="true" />
<figcaption><a href="https://www.instagram.com/ctdesign/"
class="markup--anchor markup--figure-anchor"
data-href="https://www.instagram.com/ctdesign/" rel="nofollow noopener"
target="_blank">https://www.instagram.com/ctdesign/</a></figcaption>
</figure>

More soon!
:::
::::
::::::
:::::::

By [Chris T](https://medium.com/@ctdesign){.p-author .h-card} on [August
29, 2018](https://medium.com/p/6c9fbc5dfb2f).

[Canonical
link](https://medium.com/@ctdesign/workshops-and-sea-views-weeknotes-s02e06-6c9fbc5dfb2f){.p-canonical}

Exported from [Medium](https://medium.com) on February 9, 2025.
