<div>

# How I ran my first meet-up 

</div>

::: 
Back in July, I innocently posted on a mailing list asking if anyone
would be interested if I ran a meet-up in Sheffield for designers in...
:::

::::::: 
:::::: 
::: section-divider

------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::

:::: section-content
::: 
### **How I ran my first meet-up** 

<figure id="4d43" class="graf graf--figure graf-after--h3">
<img
src="https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*JLuVrtu976yzfgwLyQgVsQ.jpeg"
class="graf-image" data-image-id="1*JLuVrtu976yzfgwLyQgVsQ.jpeg"
data-width="1024" data-height="768" data-is-featured="true" />
</figure>

[Back in
July](https://twitter.com/ctdesign/status/887611119015165953){.markup--anchor
.markup--p-anchor
data-href="https://twitter.com/ctdesign/status/887611119015165953"
rel="noopener" target="_blank"}, I innocently posted on a mailing list
asking if anyone would be interested if I ran a meet-up in Sheffield for
designers in government.

The only problem was --- I'd never run *any* kind of event before.

Fortunately, [Gov Design Sheffield went (relatively)
smoothly](http://storify.com/ctdesign/gov-design-sheffield){.markup--anchor
.markup--p-anchor
data-href="http://storify.com/ctdesign/gov-design-sheffield"
rel="noopener" target="_blank"} --- largely down the help and support of
friends and colleagues. I was also surprise how *fun* I found it.

So I thought it might be useful to share what I learned, for anyone else
considering running an event.

### **Finding your audience** 

I first spoke to a few friends and colleagues to see if an event for
government designers who work in and around Sheffield would be something
they would find useful. There's quite a bit of digital government
presence in Sheffield and Leeds at the moment and I though it would be
useful for those designers to meet up and share the work they are doing.
Everyone I spoke to thought it was a good idea.

This gave me the confidence to begin asking more widely on the cross-gov
slack and service design mailing list. Around 20 people replied saying
they would like to know more, so I posted a Google Form to collect some
simple basic information (name, email, gov department, location). I
probably should have done this first or even just created an eventbrite
page straight away, to save people having to enter their details again.

### **Read up and don't be afraid to ask for help** 

Whilst the replies were trickling in, I asked [Kara
Kane](https://twitter.com/karakane_kk?lang=en){.markup--anchor
.markup--p-anchor data-href="https://twitter.com/karakane_kk?lang=en"
rel="noopener" target="_blank"} (who organises the cross-gov community
events) for any advice. She helpfully replied with some really useful
nuggets of wisdom:

-   [Decide on a format --- is it during the day or after work? Is it
    open to the public? Is it going to be just show and tells?]
-   [The Gov Design London event is setup with 2--3 speakers, its after
    work at 6pm and its open to the public. They create a meet-up page
    for each event and publicise on twitter.]
-   [Crowd-source the agenda via a google doc distributed to the
    attendees]
-   [Be clear about what happens next --- is there another meet up, what
    are the outcomes?]

Kara told me it was ok to use the Gov Design branding for this as well,
which I think helped it get off the ground (Gov Design Sheffield has a
nice ring to it).

I also did a bit of googling and found these articles most useful:

-   [[https://daveredfern.com/2016/ive-learned-organising-meetup/](https://daveredfern.com/2016/ive-learned-organising-meetup/){.markup--anchor
    .markup--li-anchor
    data-href="https://daveredfern.com/2016/ive-learned-organising-meetup/"
    rel="noopener" target="_blank"}]
-   [[https://techspark.co/need-to-know-how-to-build-a-top-tech-meetup-group/](https://techspark.co/need-to-know-how-to-build-a-top-tech-meetup-group/){.markup--anchor
    .markup--li-anchor
    data-href="https://techspark.co/need-to-know-how-to-build-a-top-tech-meetup-group/"
    rel="noopener" target="_blank"}]
-   [[http://inside.envato.com/guide-to-meetups/](http://inside.envato.com/guide-to-meetups/){.markup--anchor
    .markup--li-anchor
    data-href="http://inside.envato.com/guide-to-meetups/"
    rel="noopener" target="_blank"}]
-   [[http://conference-handbook.readthedocs.io/timeline.html](http://conference-handbook.readthedocs.io/timeline.html){.markup--anchor
    .markup--li-anchor
    data-href="http://conference-handbook.readthedocs.io/timeline.html"
    rel="noopener" target="_blank"}]

### **Secure a venue and date** 

After I had enough people registering their interest (20) I began
thinking about dates and venues. There isn't a suitable space at my
current workplace. I knew that the Department for Education in Sheffield
had previously hosted a user research meet-up so I asked a friend who
just started working there to make an enquiry for me. He came back with
a couple of free dates and room sizes. I picked a mid-week date, four
weeks from then for three hours (1--4pm). Kara had advised to check if
there are any other similar events running around the same time and to
maybe try and avoid school holiday periods. However I had already had a
group of interested people so I decided August was still ok (this was
more of trial anyway).

### **Keep organised** 

After I sorted a venue and date, I published the details of the event on
Eventbrite. It has a facility to allow people to book tickets, hold
waiting lists and email your attendees. It also lets you print out
registers and use a free app to check-in people on the day.

I created a Trello board to track everything I needed to do --- which
was invaluable. I used it more as a reminder and a brain dump of
everything I thought I should do. If more people help out in future
events I'll probably use this to help coordinate everything.

### **Speakers and format** 

I knew that I would be relying on friends and colleagues for the
speakers for this first event.

I started emailing and messaging people on slack to see who was
interested --- and to my surprise everyone agreed. I suggested that they
do a talk (on anything they wanted) or a show and tell of around 20 mins
(knowing that its a pretty good length to keep peoples attention). I
didn't get involved in curating any of the content or anything --- I
just trusted that they would share something useful (which they did!).

Once everyone confirmed, I shared a google doc with the speakers where
I'd worked out a rough order and added estimated timings. I was planning
to compere the event starting with a five minute into. Then I would
introduce each speaker and, following their talk, ask the audience if
they had any questions. I allowed for five minutes of changeover/overrun
and five minutes for questions per talk. We planned for three talks,
then a 15 min break and then another three talks which I hoped would be
a nice pace.

### **Check the venue** 

I spent an hour or so checking out the room once booked and took a few
pictures to share with the speakers. We spoke with the buildings
reception to find out if there's anything else they needed to
know --- they informed us we should include the fire safety procedure
and get them a list of the attendees on the day (eventbrite has a
feature for printing out attendee registers). We planned to have one
person stay in the reception area to bring groups of attendees up in
batches on the day.

### **Keep everyone informed** 

Every week leading up to the event I kept the speakers up to date with
the latest number of people who had signed up and information about the
venue. I originally had asked them to bring their own laptops, but I
later changed my mind realising that it would be easier to run it all
from one laptop.

As I firmed up information about dates and the speakers, I emailed the
attendees via eventbrite --- I kept this to a maximum of 1 email a week,
with my final email being the Friday before the event. This was all
pretty easy to do via the Eventbrite interface.

### **On the day** 

I spend the morning checking through the slides that the speakers sent
to ensure they ran ok on my laptop. I also made PDF backups just in
case. To make it easier for me and the speakers, I cleared my desktop
completely and just had onefolder called 'Speaker Slides' and organised
the slides in speaking order.

<figure id="8fdd" class="graf graf--figure graf-after--p">
<img
src="https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*29DYyRLt47-bMjOt7Qw1Og.png"
class="graf-image" data-image-id="1*29DYyRLt47-bMjOt7Qw1Og.png"
data-width="1162" data-height="874" />
</figure>

I got to the venue two hours before it started (only a 10 min walk from
my office). The room was supposed to have a ceiling mounted projector
but it wasn't available so we had to use a portable one. This meant we
had to spend a bit of time rearranging the room so that the speakers
would have enough room to move and the projector wouldn't block the view
of the attendees --- I'm so glad I got there early.

As it was approaching the start time, I got a bit anxious that not as
many people as I hoped had turned up. In retrospect I should have put
down a clear time for people to start arriving and state when the talks
would start. I expected a drop off in numbers --- around 32 people had
signed up and 19 actually showed up. I was initially quite disappointed
by this but as the day went on and I chatted with people, I realised
they were getting a lot out of it and I felt much better. The last thing
I wanted was people to feel this was a waste of time.

One thing that I didn't manage very well was the timings on the day. The
talks in the morning ran a little short, so I panicked and added my
backup talk in to fill the time --- which made us run over by about five
minutes. People came back from the break a little later which compounded
things. The talks in the afternoon then overran a little so I had to cut
some of the Q&A's short --- in total we finished about 20 minutes later
than we should. Next time I will give the speakers an indication of the
amount of time left and probably have fewer talks and a shorter running
time so that any timing issues won't get so compounded.

We finished the day with a trip to a pub that was helpfully on the route
back to the train station. I spoke with people and got a genuine sense
that they had found it really useful, which was great to hear. Made it
all worthwhile

### **What I'm going to do differently next time** 

I learned loads from this first event.

Next time, I think I will run it in the evening after work. A few of the
contractors who came said that they found it difficult to justify coming
as it was in work time. I was initially reluctant to run it in the
evening as there is no budget whatsoever for this to secure a venue and
I assumed no government buildings would be open in the evening. However
I have now managed to find somewhere willing to host it after work, so
we'll give this a try.

Because it will be in the evening I plan to make it shorter. I'm going
to aim for 3--4 speakers next time and aim for around two hours running
time. The 20-minutes per speaker duration seemed to work really well
though, so I'll keep that.

#### Open source checklist 

I've made checklist so that I would remember everything I learned for
the next event on GitHub
[https://github.com/ctdesign/meetup-checklist](https://github.com/ctdesign/meetup-checklist){.markup--anchor
.markup--p-anchor
data-href="https://github.com/ctdesign/meetup-checklist" rel="noopener"
target="_blank"}.

I'll be adding to this as I run more of these kinds of things --- feel
free to add your own insights as well.
:::
::::
::::::
:::::::

By [Chris T](https://medium.com/@ctdesign) on [August
24, 2017](https://medium.com/p/7c9bc427ded6).

[Canonical
link](https://medium.com/@ctdesign/how-i-ran-my-first-meet-up-7c9bc427ded6)

Exported from [Medium](https://medium.com) on February 9, 2025.
