<div>

# Focus and bits and bobs: Weeknotes #18 

</div>

::: 
30 Oct --- 3 Nov 17
:::

::::::::::: 
:::::: 
::: section-divider

------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::

:::: section-content
::: 
### Focus and bits and bobs: Weeknotes #18 

30 Oct --- 3 Nov 17

<figure id="41c4" class="graf graf--figure graf-after--p">
<img
src="https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*kNkkTERU0Jj-d1MyiOXQ6Q.gif"
class="graf-image" data-image-id="1*kNkkTERU0Jj-d1MyiOXQ6Q.gif"
data-width="500" data-height="281" />
</figure>

Some things we did this week:

-   [Phone interviews for contract interaction designers]
-   [Worked with our comms team on some identity work they have
    commissioned]
-   [Progressed some of my work on the case working meet-up]

**Monday** began with my valiant, but ultimately futile, attempts to
turn the varying levels of crap in my inbox into actionable tasks. I was
thwarted due to various meetings and stand-ups interrupting my flow,
causing me to constantly stop and start. In future, I need to chunk up
my time up better to prevent so much task switching.

Later on, I had a call with a delivery manager about a role they want to
put out for a contract interaction designer. We chatted about the job
spec and I suggested some amends. We're going to be sifting applications
next week.

In the afternoon, I had a Centre of Excellence conference call to
discuss updates to our collective goals for the next quarter. We're
having a new Chief DDaT Officer starting later on this month so we want
to get things clear for her arrival.

On **Tuesday** I had two phone interviews for contractors, this time for
an internal Home Office project. Phone interviews are not an ideal
method of interviewing for me, but in this case they were the only
practical way to conduct them. The way we hire contractors changed
earlier in the year. Previously we tended to hire designers, researchers
and content designers centrally and the allocate them to delivery teams.
Since our reorganisation in April, each of our delivery portfolios now
hires contractors directly, with support from professional leads. Whilst
this, gratefully, reduces the amount of admin I have to do, it sometimes
makes it more difficult to find out what's happening across all of our
project. Fortunately, for this particular recruitment, we've been
involved all the way through.

On **Wednesday** I had a 1--2--1 with one of my staff members. I heard
some talk recently following the recent Leading Design conference that
someone suggested ditching 1--2--1's. I still find it invaluable in
having a regular slot to have a structured chat with my
staff --- especially when you both don't work in the same office. I've
spoken previously about the format of our 1--2--1's which encourage
reflection and goal planning --- for me, this is still working really
well and my staff have reported that it's working well for them as well.

In the afternoon I worked with Mike to review a prototype he's made for
testing our Design System. I also had an informal chat with a product
manager from the Government as a Platform team where I talked about the
recent case working meet up I organised.

I worked from home on **Thursday** for a change. I hoped to spend a good
chunk of the day writing up things from the case working
meet-up --- however, it's taking a lot longer than I thought, so I might
need to get a little help. In the afternoon I had a call with a couple
of our Service Designers about their work on end to end services in
Immigration. I'm hopefully going to help out with a bit of prototyping
next week, which I'm looking forward to. My current role means I'm not
doing loads of actual design work, which I don't mind, but it's a
welcome change.

On **Friday** morning I grabbed a bit of time with
[Charles](https://medium.com/@charlesrt){.markup--anchor
.markup--p-anchor data-href="https://medium.com/@charlesrt"
target="_blank"} to review our staffing structure. Following all of the
recruitment recently there's been a few promotions, so we need to move
people about. I also spent a bit of time with one of our new Interaction
Design interns, Beth, talking through some of her recent work. She
brought some design problems she was having to our team meeting and
attended the weekly cross-gov design systems call with me to learn about
the ongoing work we're doing there.

I also played around with a new training platform we're trialling across
gov. It's seems pretty good so far --- theres lots of video content on
design, coding and management. The content was pretty good and I
actually learned some stuff.
:::
::::
::::::

:::::: 
::: section-divider

------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::

:::: section-content
::: 
Overall, it's been a bit of a weird week this week. I spent most of it
doing lots of little jobs. Most of this were jobs that did needed doing
but in hindsight I probably could have prioritised things much better. I
kind of have a hollow sense of achievement. I did make some progress on
my more important to-dos --- but not quite the amount of progress that I
wanted to. I think that one of my problems is that I'm not thinking
important tasks through enough. I sort of just start doing things, then
feel a bit disheartened that I'm taking so long and my mood takes a dip.
Like i said, it's been a bit of a weird week.

[I read a great article on
productivity](http://uk.businessinsider.com/time-management-and-productivity-hacks-2017-11){.markup--anchor
.markup--p-anchor
data-href="http://uk.businessinsider.com/time-management-and-productivity-hacks-2017-11"
rel="noopener" target="_blank"} last week. One of the recommendations
was to plan only 4--5 hours of productive work in a day. The rest of
your day gets filled up with other things, so plan for what's actually
practical. You should also try and chunk up your time and keep the same
context throughout the day, to prevent switching between multiple
different things.

Going to give these a try straight away and see if they help.

More next week!
:::
::::
::::::
:::::::::::

By [Chris T](https://medium.com/@ctdesign) on
[November 8, 2017](https://medium.com/p/14bb6efaf69a).

[Canonical
link](https://medium.com/@ctdesign/focus-and-bits-and-bobs-weeknotes-18-14bb6efaf69a)

Exported from [Medium](https://medium.com) on February 9, 2025.
