<div>

# Cheese and prototyping: Weeknotes #25 

</div>

::: 
1 Jan --- 5 Jan 18
:::

::::::: 
:::::: 
::: section-divider

------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::

:::: section-content
::: 
### Cheese and prototyping: Weeknotes #25 

*1 Jan --- 5 Jan 18*

<figure id="d45c" class="graf graf--figure graf-after--p">
<img
src="https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*2bzDLFpSljyvd0D4xLg1aA.gif"
class="graf-image" data-image-id="1*2bzDLFpSljyvd0D4xLg1aA.gif"
data-width="500" data-height="300" data-is-featured="true" />
</figure>

A brief one from me this week, as I ease myself back into the rhythm of
work and weeknotes.

The Christmas break was very welcome, thankyouvermuchly. I mostly
achieved my goal of eating, well, all the cheese and spending whole days
binging movies and TV curled up on the sofa. It was good.

I was working the week before crimbo but it was pretty quiet and I
mainly spent my time trying to finish the resources for the designing
case working systems meet up a few months ago and supporting a team
building a prototype.

**This week** heralded the start of my new boss [Andrew
Travers](https://medium.com/@atrvrs){.markup--anchor .markup--p-anchor
data-href="https://medium.com/@atrvrs" target="_blank"} who returns to
the Home Office after spending some time in the wilderness of Manchester
(apparently working for some kind of supermarket or something ;p).
Andrew worked in the Home Office a few years back and remarked on how
much has changed within the digital side of things but a lot of the
things in the wider organisation seemed quite similar.

A large chunk of my week was spent attempting to rationally explain how
our Digital, Data and Technology department is organised, the work we
have in progress and its of general induction-y stuff. I always feel I
do this apologetically, like saying sorry for the mess to a house guest.

Me, [Mike](https://medium.com/@1mikeowen){.markup--anchor
.markup--p-anchor data-href="https://medium.com/@1mikeowen"
target="_blank"} and Andrew had an initial get together to bring him up
to speed on some of the things we've been doing as central team to
support Interaction Design. Next week we'll be reviewing the last 3
months worth of work and setting some new goals. I'm very excited about
harnessing that lovely big brain of Andrews in order to do more
impactful stuff this year. I'm especially keen to try and see if we can
better establish the value of Interaction Design in the Home Office,
especially with senior people overseeing and commissioning projects. I
sometimes feel slightly anxious offering our work up for close scrutiny.
However I've found things like [publishing our goals
openly](https://trello.com/b/OR5L8Vdt/coe-interaction-design-tasks){.markup--anchor
.markup--p-anchor
data-href="https://trello.com/b/OR5L8Vdt/coe-interaction-design-tasks"
rel="noopener" target="_blank"} and writing these weeknotes regularly
has helped a lot in that regards.

I also worked on some prototypes this week. One was for helping out a
team working on an internal case working system whilst their designer
was off sick. The other was for our service design team as part of their
work to help the Home Office build end-to-end services. It ended up not
taking too long as I had already borrowed a lot of the logic from
another designer before Christmas. I really must put these snippets
somewhere useful so I can find them better.

More next week.
:::
::::
::::::
:::::::

By [Chris T](https://medium.com/@ctdesign) on
[January 8, 2018](https://medium.com/p/5ded3ea3010e).

[Canonical
link](https://medium.com/@ctdesign/cheese-and-prototyping-weeknotes-25-5ded3ea3010e)

Exported from [Medium](https://medium.com) on February 9, 2025.
