<div>

# Meetups and mentoring: Weeknotes s02e08 

</div>

::: 
3 Sep 18--7 Sep 18
:::

::::::: 
:::::: 
::: section-divider

------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::

:::: section-content
::: 
### Meetups and mentoring: Weeknotes s02e08 

*3 Sep 18--7 Sep 18*

<figure id="fc8e" class="graf graf--figure graf-after--p">
<img
src="https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*3uWu7NyXIOa6UluFsGm9Hg.gif"
class="graf-image" data-image-id="1*3uWu7NyXIOa6UluFsGm9Hg.gif"
data-width="480" data-height="270" />
</figure>

### Things that happened this week 

#### **Went to a DWP meetup** 

My buddy [Chris](https://medium.com/u/cfa0220014f1){.markup--user
.markup--p-user data-href="https://medium.com/u/cfa0220014f1"
anchor-type="2" user-id="cfa0220014f1" action-value="cfa0220014f1"
data-action="show-user-card" action-type="hover" target="_blank"} and
the indomitable [Simon
Wilson](https://medium.com/u/1c8fcaa78b3e){.markup--user .markup--p-user
data-href="https://medium.com/u/1c8fcaa78b3e" anchor-type="2"
user-id="1c8fcaa78b3e" action-value="1c8fcaa78b3e"
data-action="show-user-card" action-type="hover" target="_blank"}
invited me and [Michael
Owen](https://medium.com/u/587ad149ffc3){.markup--user .markup--p-user
data-href="https://medium.com/u/587ad149ffc3" anchor-type="2"
user-id="587ad149ffc3" action-value="587ad149ffc3"
data-action="show-user-card" action-type="hover" target="_blank"} up to
a DWP design examples meetup, where DWP designers get together and share
examples of similar work.

We went to talk about the work that we (well, mostly Mike) have done on
the [Home Office Design
System](https://home-office-digital-patterns.herokuapp.com/patterns){.markup--anchor
.markup--p-anchor
data-href="https://home-office-digital-patterns.herokuapp.com/patterns"
rel="noopener" target="_blank"}. We talked frankly about some of the
mistakes we made and the amount of effort required to continually keep
people engaged but also about how it's made design easier and quicker.

<figure id="6d80" class="graf graf--figure graf--iframe graf-after--p">
<blockquote>
<a
href="https://twitter.com/ermlikeyeah/status/1037637807756505089"></a>
</blockquote>
</figure>

Interestingly, DWP recently started [advertising for staff for their own
design systems
team](https://www.civilservicejobs.service.gov.uk/csr/jobs.cgi?jcode=1596838){.markup--anchor
.markup--p-anchor
data-href="https://www.civilservicejobs.service.gov.uk/csr/jobs.cgi?jcode=1596838"
rel="noopener" target="_blank"} which I think is a great move. Why do
departments need their own design systems team when there's a GDS one,
you might ask? For me, the main thing is designing at scale is a problem
that individual departments need to take responsibility for. A design
system is as much about the culture and practices of an organisation, as
much as about the actual guidance itself and therefore having a team to
shape this is a great move. Also, like the Home Office, DWP spends an
enormous amount of its time designing systems for staff, which the GDS
guidance does not focus on (that's not a criticism of the team by the
way --- they're a lovely bunch, it's just not their focus or remit at
the moment). It's up to government departments to take on the
responsibility of making internal services as good as the effort we put
onto public facing ones and I think this will help that.

#### **We made some decisions about alphas for our decision making project** 

For our decision making project we spent some time narrowing down our
list of potential alphas. [Mr
Bootle](https://medium.com/u/29e5d88c3e6){.markup--user .markup--p-user
data-href="https://medium.com/u/29e5d88c3e6" anchor-type="2"
user-id="29e5d88c3e6" action-value="29e5d88c3e6"
data-action="show-user-card" action-type="hover" target="_blank"}
returning from his leave was a good opportunity to reflect and check our
thinking and the team spent some time in pairs reviewing and revising
the proposed ideas and associated hypotheses.

Feels now that we have a good list and an idea of where to start. Next
week we're going to do an end of discovery show and tell and get
started. Exciting!

#### **Went on some mentoring training** 

We have an amazing internship programme in the Home Office and are just
about to take on this years cohort (which I believe is the largest so
far).

As part of this, we also provide some mentoring training for people who
take on interns within their delivery teams. This was really well
attended and I liked how it gave a background on how our internships are
structured, how to give feedback and how mentors can plan their
placements to ensure interns get the most out of their time with us.
It's not talked about enough, but I like how the focus is always on the
intern learning, not about what we as an organisation get out of it.

#### **Other things** 

This was a weird thing that happened whilst waiting for the train to the
DWP Leeds meetup.

<figure id="8905" class="graf graf--figure graf--iframe graf-after--p">
<blockquote>
<a href="https://twitter.com/ctdesign/status/1037599713116213249"></a>
</blockquote>
</figure>

It's nice to have things to look forward to so me and my wife booked a
holiday to Greece for October. I think our pale skin and bad reaction to
extreme heat will welcome the more reasonable climate expected at that
time of the year.

Seem to be on a bit of a nostalgia kick recently and have been
rewatching old movies. Throughout the last couple of weeks (mostly
because I was overnight for work a lot) I saw Predator, Terminator,
Robocop, Total Recall and attempted to watch Commando again but it's not
stood the test of time well and is quite frankly a bit rubbish.

I also started the Digital Transformation at Scale book which so far has
been a pleasant, swift read.

More next week!
:::
::::
::::::
:::::::

By [Chris T](https://medium.com/@ctdesign) on
[September 11, 2018](https://medium.com/p/afb2cf1022c6).

[Canonical
link](https://medium.com/@ctdesign/meetups-and-mentoring-weeknotes-s02e08-afb2cf1022c6)

Exported from [Medium](https://medium.com) on February 9, 2025.
