<div>

# Demystifying the dark art of senior engagement 

</div>

::: 
From my relatively short experience working in government, one of the
most common things I hear colleagues talk about is the importance of...
:::

::::::::::: 
:::::: 
::: section-divider

------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::

:::: section-content
::: 
### Demystifying the dark art of senior engagement 

<figure id="1ce4" class="graf graf--figure graf-after--h3">
<img
src="https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*T7N4nrbzWA9kL8xks9sXqQ.gif"
class="graf-image" data-image-id="1*T7N4nrbzWA9kL8xks9sXqQ.gif"
data-width="480" data-height="206" />
</figure>

From my relatively short experience working in government, one of the
most common things I hear colleagues talk about is the importance of
'senior engagement' or 'upwards management'.

Getting this senior 'buy-in' is seen as an essential part of getting
your agenda taken seriously or freeing up money for projects. You're
probably thinking 'so what, isn't this true for any type of
organisation?'.

Well, yes of course it is. However for me, the problem is that
departments like the Home Office are **big**. Like, really big. There
are so many moving parts, differing priorities and people in a myriad of
roles with similar sounding titles. It's difficult to understand where
you need to start from and who to approach.

There's also a tendency, particularly in gov, for senior civil servants
to be perceived as hard to get hold of and difficult to persuade around
to digital ways of thinking.

In short, I've found it incredibly daunting and paralysing. Fortunately,
I recently sought help.

A few months ago, I signed up to a leadership course where we get to
explore problems like engaging senior leaders with peers from different
parts of the organisation. I've found this incredibly helpful in
demystifying some of the barriers around this and some of my own
assumptions. I also had the opportunity to grill a senior civil servant
at a recent Home Office event about how they like to be approached and
engaged, which has really helped it 'click' in my head. It's one thing
to logically understand the mechanics of engagement (which I think I
did), it's another to make it resonate with you and the way you work
(which it didn't).

So, in the spirit of working in the open I thought I'd share what I've
learned so far. None of it is particularly new or innovative but it's
helped me turn what I always felt was a rather vague, dark art into
something practical and tangible that makes sense to me.

### Finding who to talk to 

#### Build networks outside your bubble 

It's important to network outside of your immediate profession and
colleagues. The more connections you have, the more likely you'll learn
about the key people to speak to. Sometimes you will need 'grade clout'
to unblock problems and by spreading your network you're more likely to
know someone who can introduce you to someone senior who can help.

#### Be deliberate in making connections 

I like chatting to people --- but I don't think I've ever really
perceived networking as *real* work. I've recently come to understand
that **I need to make this part of my job**. Embrace opportunities to
connect with people. Try signing up for mentoring schemes. Go on
training courses or lunch and learns --- especially ones outside your
profession. Remember that you're also building long-term
connections --- you might not need a contact today but they might be
useful next year.

#### Ask someone to take you along to senior meetings 

You probably know someone, like your line manager or head of department,
who is already doing the kind of engagement you're trying to do. Ask
them to take you along to some of their meetings to observe and learn.
This will also help you get known.

#### Ask for help 

Don't be afraid to ask for help on ways to get started from peers or
people immediately senior to you. Ask for candid feedback from people on
how you're perceived --- this is tough, but will help you understand
what you need to work on to ensure you come across as you intend.

#### Speak at events with the right audience 

I've done lots of talks and presentations over the years, but it's often
tended to be for an audience that, basically, understands where I'm
coming from. Whilst there's nothing wrong with this, it's important to
find opportunities to get yourself in front of people from different
levels of the organisation---especially if you think they disagree with
you.

Events like the Home Office away day I mentioned have a much more
diverse audience and there are opportunities to get known. For example,
the away day features a section of three-minute lightening talks that
anyone can pitch. Next time, I'm going to make sure I sign up.

#### Follow up on contacts 

The senior civil servant I spoke to emphasised the importance of
following up after making contact with someone. Whether it's to ask
their help or to make sure you're fresh in their mind, make sure that
you at least send a brief email soon after the introduction.

#### Consider your method of contact. 

Face to face is probably best but don't assume that it's right for
everyone --- speak with people who know the person you want to connect
with and find out how they like to deal with enquiries. Do the ground
work and understand your audience. Find out what the best touch-points
are.

### What to do once you get in front of them 

#### Do your research 

Find out from your contacts the kind of things your audience is
interested in or what their current priorities are. You need to come
across credible, so aside from knowing your area well you need to prep
so that you understand what this person cares about. Do you understand
what this persons job is? Talk to your contacts, find out what they
think of this person and how they like to work.

#### Frame your conversation via things they care about 

The senior civil servant I spoke to gave me a list of things he felt
were quite common priorities at his level. Some of the things he
highlighted were:

-   [they care that everyone is able to do their job effectively]
-   [that want to ensure things are being done efficiency and that we
    have the right capability]
-   [they want to minimise costs, of course, but quality is also very
    important]
-   [they want to know that we adding value --- if not, why are we doing
    it?]
-   [what are the risks they should know about]

The last point about risk was emphasised. Senior leaders, generally,
would rather hear about risks early before they turn into problems.
Sometimes people are reticent to highlight risks early as they're
worried about getting the blame but its much better to raise these
things in plenty of time before they turn into a real issue.

#### Be seen as helpful, not preachy 

Your mindset needs to be that you are there to help, not tell them what
they should be doing. Ask lots of questions. You should be learning
about their work and problems so that you can position yourself in the
most helpful way. You need to come across as working *with* them.
Rhetoric that may work within your immediate circle may not be effective
here.

#### Remember you're building a relationship 

You need to build relationships before bringing up problems.

I had a bad experience in a meeting last year that somewhat knocked my
confidence. I wanted to discuss some issues around how design was
working on several projects with a senior manager. This was actually the
first time I'd met him and instead of using it as an opportunity to get
to know them or talk about things in a more general way (for example,
how did he feel design was going) I launched into a list of rather vague
problems. He did not agree that there were any problems and the meeting
became quite tense after, as he became defensive. I failed to understand
what his goals and drivers were. I also didn't get across how I could
help with this, not just point out problems.

#### Write down the main points of your argument beforehand 

I find it useful when approaching potentially difficult conversations to
write down my argument and the points I want to make.

As well as helping me craft a clearer, simpler message it helps me
consider how other people may challenge me on my points. If possible,
run through your points with a colleague and ask them for critique. You
don't need to recite this verbatim in the meeting, but it helps embed it
in your head.

#### Have evidence ready 

Have some specific examples to back up your points. This could be
statistics or case studies but you should have a few in the bag to lend
credibility to your argument.

#### Remember they are human too 

I asked the senior civil servant I met, 'What do you find hard to do?'.
He told my about how even at his level and with over 20 years of
experience in the civil service, he finds the Home Office a very complex
organisation. The structures, financing models and drivers can be quite
different between the different directorates. It can be really hard to
bring things together because of this. You may need to sell the same
solution in several different ways to these separate audiences.

It was good to hear that the kinds of things I was feeling were also
problems at all levels. Remember that whilst senior leaders hold lots of
power, they're people at the end of the day and have their own problems
that might not be obvious. I believe people in general want the best for
everyone and like helping others.

#### Persevere 

This is my number one lesson from working in government. It can take
time to get things going and you'll probably have many false starts and
frustrations along to way, but [keep
going](http://www.hollidazed.co.uk/2015/12/18/2015-keep-going/){.markup--anchor
.markup--p-anchor
data-href="http://www.hollidazed.co.uk/2015/12/18/2015-keep-going/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank"}.

Also, try not to take things personally if you hit setbacks, it may not
be because of obvious reasons.
:::
::::
::::::

:::::: 
::: section-divider

------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::

:::: section-content
::: 
My next step is to make a plan to put the above into practice.

Let me know if you have any top tips or better ways to do this. I'm
still learning what works for me and would love to hear more from others
experiences.
:::
::::
::::::
:::::::::::

By [Chris T](https://medium.com/@ctdesign) on
[February 22, 2018](https://medium.com/p/8c78a4b6036d).

[Canonical
link](https://medium.com/@ctdesign/demystifying-the-dark-art-of-senior-engagement-8c78a4b6036d)

Exported from [Medium](https://medium.com) on February 9, 2025.
